Became totally immersed in that era. So well done. I STILL LOVE Downton Abby and thought they did a great job including all the info they did include. That being said ..... I thought the first half of the movie was slow and sort of boring. That quickly changed for the second half which was great and wrapped everything up very nicely.I also think it will definitely lead to another movie.As usual.....great scenery, beautiful shows and supurb acting !!! The most standout are the red vests/uniforms worn by the royal servers.I also liked the women's costumes. Even Lady Edith looked pretty good this time, plus her period-era one-piece undergarment showed some cleavage and inferred a little sexuality - being that she was finally married to a decent chap and even in the early stages of yet another pregnancy. Ugh.The family started out poor, for aristos, since they had to be bailed out by Shirley MacLaine's family money at the beginning. Toward the end of this film, they are still trying to put their heads together to think of ways to keep the property financially afloat.Irony: Highclere Castle, the estate in real life, today has events and tours in order to keep the property financially afloat. Gotta pay the light bill, you know. Pip, pip. The whole sub plot with Thomas and his friend was totally frivolous and didn't further the plot at all. They seem to have left it open to a sequel, but if I watch it at all, it will be after it comes to a streaming platform. The idea that the downton staff would hold the royal staff hostage is ridiculous. I myself would have taken the day off if offered. Also the part where the butler gets busted in the gay bar seemed a little contrived. I enjoyed it, but it felt rushed and needed more drama. And yes, it's a stand-alone, but I wouldn't go see this unless you've watched the series. It thrills me to say that my husband enjoyed the movie having never watched the TV series. Truly well done! Edith, married for love, incredibly wealthy, at the top of the social heap, and expecting a child, still finds something to whine about.The plot to outfox the king's overbearing staff was totally unbelievable (but fun). Ok, I've seen one episode. I wouldn't need to see it more than once or twice, especially without knowing anything. But it does intrigue me enough to maybe start watching the series. It's a nice ending to an endearing series, even the resort to French farce in mid movie couldn't ruin it, but let's face it it's as sophisticated as a helium balloon. It will do boffo at the box office, older people will clap, and Queen Mary's penchant for shaming people out of their jewels and doodads will be now historically be blamed on her dresser. Ah well: Noblesse oblige...not! I agree with another reviewer that it was a risk making the transition from small to big screen but I think they pulled it off better than some others have attempted to do in the past. I disagree with the boundless praise for the Cinematograpy... it was so grandiose for grandiose sake for at least the first 15mins and I feared I was going to be terribly disappointed in the film if it continues. It's as if the director, DP and camera op were all trying to prove their worthiness as skilled technicians in the movie world rather than that of TV and, for me, it was just distracting and annoying. If I saw one more totally unnecessary and too obvious rack focus I was going to scream. Sweeping grandiose shots from weird angles did not reflect the DA pacing and true spirit that made the series magical and I "get-it" that the budget probably afforded them more access to rooms we've never seen before but I think all true "Die Hards" are happy with the grand dining room, the entrance hall, ballroom, library, Mary's bedroom, exterior front door and the servants quarters... it's what goes on IN them we care about most. I wish they'd used their regular team. Happily, about 20mins in, the direction and shooting style seemed to about turn and settle down into the seamless medium close-ups and the character-driven action we fans are used to enjoying in the TV series. Personally as a fan, I do have to agree the storyline is a bit weak and implausible at times and agree there was a definite feel of a "Hallmark Movie" at times too but the acting was excellent and I want to give a big shout out to Mr Barrow who has superbly portrayed his character arcs brilliantly throughout the series and I was thrilled with his plot developments here (can't give away any spoilers) and his reactions. Someone described it as more like a "schoolboy prank" and I have to agree. Somehow I don't think he'd have been "saying" and "doing" some of the dialogue and situations he was given and certainly not at the speed he was having to do them. I didn't like some of the editing throughout the movie and if abrupt cuts worked on the small screen they certainly didn't in the movie version it jerked me out of the flow. Who didn't love the TV series, had a mixture of period drama and soap opera, was well written and had interesting characters.This movie maintains a lot of those elements as well, and there were moments that were purely delightful, however there are problems I can't ignore.Let's start with Daisy. She's easily the worst character and she's given way too much screen time. I literally hate her.The stupid servant uprising is both weird and kind of daft. You would think that these royal toffs coming in to take over for a few days might give these downton servants a nice reprieve. I would be like yay you can clean the silver thanks, but no they don't want anyone else to polish their floors. Lame!The secret daughter subplot was way too predictable, they should've made the servant her secret lesbian lover, that would've made it more interesting.Does anyone else wish Marys insipid husband would just die?Overall though still fun, fans of the show will enjoy. Immediately I recognized it as a historical study depicting the English aristocracy and their dependency on those who served them, all under the same roof. Then, after full-recovery from heart surgery, I slowly lost interest. but well done, nevertheless.I would have loved to see conversation between royalty and the Crawley aristocracy. The time period involves the late 1920's while Europe was going through tremendous social change and Britain, save for a few, remained basically apathetic. Instead, of greatest concern is Thomas's unjust treatment for having been arrested in a 'molly house' as a pervert. It was wonderful to see the cast back in action. The story lines were woven together well and as the series, for me, was filled with drama, laughter, and some eye moistening moments, the movie was icing on the Downton Abby cake. If there's a trope the makers of this movie adaptation of the hugely successful TV show, I can't imagine what it was. Royal visit to Downton Abbey sees snooty Buckingham Palace servants strong-arming the doughty English yeomanry until put in their place by the resolute serfs standing up for his lordship's honour. There's the royal assassin lurking about the dales, the twinkly-eyed Irishman solving people's problems with his good-hearted openness, and the usurper who may or may not be inveigling their way into an inheritance they're not entitle to. It's brain candy, but enjoyable enough on a wet afternoon. I just didn't want it to end! We just can't get enough. The audience applauded because like me they loved the movie. I've seen it twice within a 48 hour period, once by myself and then with a friend. It was like watching two one hour episodes strung together. My idea of a wonderful way to spend a couple of hours. The core characters haven't changed, the sets haven't, the introduction of new characters. This was the best continuation of a beloved series, and I couldn't have wished for a better ending - laying tracks for a second movie! I loved every minute & didn't want it to end! Every character was amazing with loads of humour. Downton has been the best feel good tv programme & I'm so happy the film was just as good if not better 

I thoroughly enjoyed this film because it contained all the ingredients of the tv series. Our favorite characters field a royal visit and the royal entourage messes with Downton Abbey's downstairs staff. Mosesley was especially humorous whilst suffering an acute case of royal awestruck. The plot was really well done, giving each character enough screen time. It is a two hour movie with a huge cast. It wasn't like watching the series where each season has 6+ shows. I watched all of the series because the wife watched it. I found the series interesting and got to know the characters and their quirks. When the movie was announced, I thought it would just be another money grab. Usually the story is poor and the acting is phoned in. As was mentioned by others, the gay segment was unnecessary and totally out of context in the movie. It did not spoil the movie, but it certainly added nothing and it never occurred in the series. The rest of the characters stayed true to the series. If you didn't, you probably won't go near it, in which case you'll miss one of the year's biggest treats for non-teenage audiences.As on TV, the movie teeters between soap opera and sitcom, here and there coming close to a parody of itself. Geraldine James has been invited to play a somewhat Queen Mumsical Queen Mary, not the Teutonic battleaxe she's usually sold as. Violet, the dowager countess (Maggie Smith), and Isabel, Lady Mary's mother-in-law (Penelope Wilton), are very much a comedy duo, exchanging barbed remarks. Dame Maggie steals every scene she's in; she's built a career on this, Lord love her!OK, it's just a soap about posh folk and their servants, but it's the Pink Camay of soaps. The cast are all on top form and clearly enjoyed every minute of it.As did I. Let's hope they give us another instalment in a couple of years. Since i never saw original show i wasnt expecting anything but to fans it could be good but to me as a movie its mediocore

For a devoted fan of the TV series I was worried that the ambience would be lost on the big screen. I had nothing to worry about. Costume drama set in the late 1920's.The big screen adaptation of a highly regarded British TV series, staring some of the cream of British acting royalty. The Downton Abbey staff need to quickly prepare for this royal overnight stay. The Royal's personal staff, consisting of a French chef is sent ahead to prepare the food, a scary butler, to organise the rest of his staff. The regular staff are justifiably upset and plan a revolution with lots of Monty Python style humour. The long anticipated film finally arrived and it did not dissapoint. This film gave me everything I was wanting. That being said, the movie felt more like another episode of the show. There was no true climax and I was left wanting more. I wish they would just continue the series! A great sequel/ update from the TV series, for the fans in the UK and worldwide.There are a few story points that could be developed into a second movie or TV special, if the figures add up.Overall a good story although the servants revolt storyline was out of character with the series and seemed a bit forced.Easy way to spend a couple of hours... Stunning visuals all over! Maggie Smith is the cherry on top of the beautiful movie that was made to close all stories that ended abruptley during the series. A lot of people wanted more action or another twist of events but I personally love that they kept the original line, slow paced,quality oriented and they just closed the series..they didn't started another chapter that woud have probabily made us all want more. Go and see the movie if you've seen the series. If not then...it won't make much sense but you will still love the aristocratic life from the 20s. I was sorry to see the series end . I was thrilled when I learned there was going to be a Downton Abbey movie.I saw the Downton Abbey movie yesterday and it did not disappoint. the movie had to keep things tidy and contained to a two-hour feature.The costumes are stunning. The story lines are limited and basically each cast member had one. The theater was full of Downton Abbey enthusiasts and I don't think I laughed as much watching the series. Their banter was wonderful.I can hardly wait for the movie to come out on DVD. I want to see again. Plus, I hope they fill it with extras . Beautiful cinematography, costuming, a bit of very humor, & so on. Here's hoping they make more! Watched characters I have come to love have their character arc get wrapped up. It's rare when an audience burts into applause at the end but my saturday afternoon cinema was full.Each actor amazing. The surprises unexpected. The love. The staff serving at table. Went with a group last night. We loved the clothing and the house and grounds. The gay scene was thrown in for someone, not for anyone in the theater as we all booed when the guys started making out. As the film opening progressed, I kept waiting for the main theme to begin. Then, just as the camera panned up and the Abbey started to come into full view, the classic opening theme began in all its glory. If you're a fan of the series music, that alone is worth the price of admission. They picked up right where they left off. If you liked the show you'll love the movie. I have to say it's everything I had hoped for as a fan of the series. I'll try to stay spoiler free here, but all the favorite cast members get a new arc or a continuation of where we left them. The new cast additions liven it up, from the Royal staff to Princess Mary to a nice performance from Imelda Staunton, who's playing a role far removed from Umbridge as Grantham cousin Lady Bagshaw, another foil for Maggie Grace.Go see it, please. As a fan, it's a feel good movie from start to finish. There's no way I wasn't going to love it.But, as much as I loved Downton Abbey, it's not perfect. To cram in everything they tried to, it would have needed to be filmed as seventh season - not a two hour movie. Second, I cannot imagine going into this movie without having seen the series. I'm sure that there are those out there that find that it was too perfect, and everything was tied up in a pretty bow, but I say, why can't it?! This movie truly had it all: humor, seriousness, snide comments, and brilliant one-liners! A hearty thank you to Julian Fellowes and the brilliant cast for making this Downton fan grin from ear to ear with satisfaction! Quick and witty dialog, familiar characters, a fun plot twist and gorgeous Highclere Castle all rolled into one. It was a fun movie to watch! If you love the Crawley's, you will love the movie. It's fun. Violet, our lovable dowager, is her quip usual self, & thank goodness. Be prepared to be pleasantly entertained and enthralled by it all. As ever we have the Downton high quality production values in a cinema setting. Fantastic acting and cinematography. I am very tempted to give it ten stars because you leave the cinema with a warm feeling. You will have no idea what's going on, how this character relates to the other or why I should care. It's all just one jumble to me as I never seen an episode of the tv show. And it did look cool so I enjoy that. Other wise, the movie did nothing to make me want to see the show

If you're a fan of the TV show, you'll love this. It's well paced with no dull moments, and instances of pure comedy. ), and let you escape from the madness of today's world. My only slight gripe, was I'd love to have seen Spratt and Denker in it, but as not one scene was set in the Dowagers house, it would have been difficult to include them, but maybe they could have been arguing in the village shop or something, I did miss them! I am a HUGE fan of the television series! It was full of breathtaking cinematography, beautiful music, award winning set design, and splendid fashions and costumes. All of this set the tone and backdrop for a story full of interesting characters whose lives were riveted by tragedy, war, love found, love lost, betrayal, class distinctions and money blues! Character development is a luxury that can be explored in depth in a television series with lots of seasons and several episodes, I get that! However, it's no excuse for a movie that cannot stand on its own! You should not have to have seen the television series to understand and enjoy the movie! The big drama was a royal visit? I refuse to make excuses for lack of character development, life altering issues, real drama and no tears shed here! All these "10" reviews make me wonder if I saw the same movie.